Let's learn the framework ExpressJS for web API development.
ExpressJS is a popular Node.js framework that provides tools and features for building RESTful API.
Let's create a basic web API using ExpressJS.
We need to initialize a Node.js project and install Express by running the command MPMIExpress.
In index.js file, we need to import Express and create an application.
Next, define a rock handler for the root URL slash that ribs bonds with a simple message.
Lastly, start the Express server to listen on the specific port.
Run your application, open a web browser and navigate to the HTTP localhost with the port number and you will see the halloward message displayed.
Let's look at the project structure for Node.js application.
Under the project root, we have the folder middleware contains custom middleware functions.
The folder models contains database models.
The folder node modules contains bad libraries and dependencies generated by NPM.
The folder rocks contains API rock definition.
The file.env is used to store environment variables.
The file index.js is the entry point of the application.
The file package-log.json is a log file generated by NPM used to log the versions of the packages.
Lastly, the file package.json is for project configuration including dependencies.
Let's learn how to create a product rocks in the API.
Firstly, we need to create the rock file.
Product.js under the folder rocks.
In the code, we import express and create an express router.
To simulate the product data, we define a list of products for the product resource.
Next, define a get endpoint to list all the products.
At the end of the file, export the router.
By flowing these steps, we set up a route for handling product-related operations such as listing all the products.
Using rocks in the express application are essential for organizing and modularizing your application.
In index.js, we import the rock slash rocks slash product.
It specifies the relative path to the product.js file.
Mount the rock on a specific URL path.
All the endpoints defined in the product route will be under the URL path slash product.
By mounting the rock under URL path slash product,
all the endpoints defined within the product route will have their path prefixed with slash product.
For the get endpoint at the route path slash to list all the products, you will be accessible as get product.
This approach allows you to organize your application's rocks into modular files
and specify where those rocks should be accessible.
Let's define the endpoint post slash product to create a new product.
In the rock post handler, we extract the data from the request body, add data into the array and return the data.
The endpoint get slash product slash ID is used to get a product by ID.
In this rock handler, we need to extract the ID parameter from the URL.
The ID parameter is a placeholder in the URL path and it can accessible as request.params.id.
After extracting the ID parameter, we should check if the product with a given ID exists in the data source.
If the product with a specified ID is found, we should return the found product's data.
The endpoint put slash product slash ID is used to update a product by ID.
The steps are similar to the get endpoint by ID.
We need to extract the parameter ID and check the error not found.
The main difference is the business logic that the data is processed and updated.
The endpoint delete slash product slash ID is used to delete a product by ID.
The steps are also similar to the get endpoint by ID.
The main difference is the business logic that the data is deleted.
